HDDS-11948. [Docs] DistCp integration (#7588)
apache/ozone: hadoop-hdds/docs/content/integration/DistCp.md

---
title: DistCp
weight: 4
menu:
   main:

>       parent: "Application integrations"

Reviewer: nit. Use title case for the parent section: "Application Integration"

---
<!---
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->

# Hadoop DistCp

> The Hadoop DistCP is a command line, MapReduce-based tool for bulk data copying.

Reviewer: We can link to the hadoop docs right at the top instead of waiting until the end of the document. We may want to still keep the last sentence in the doc as having the link too for clarity.
```suggestion
[Hadoop DistCP](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/current/hadoop-distcp/DistCp.html) is a command line, MapReduce-based tool for bulk data copying.
```

The `hadoop distcp` command can be used to copy data to and from Ozone and any Hadoop compatible file systems, such as HDFS or S3A.

## Basic usage

To copy files from a source Ozone cluster directory to a destination Ozone cluster directory, use the following command:

```bash
  hadoop distcp ofs://ozone1/vol1/bucket/dir1 ofs://ozone2/vol2/bucket2/dir2
```

You must define the service IDs for both `ozone1` and `ozone2` clusters in the `ozone-site.xml` configuration file. For example:
```bash
<property>
  <name>ozone.om.service.ids</name>
  <value>ozone1,ozone2</value>
</property>
```

> Next, define their logical mappings. For more details, refer to the [OM High Availability]({{< ref "OM-HA.md" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, define their logical mappings. For more details, refer to [OM High Availability]({{< ref "OM-HA.md" >}}).
```

## Copy between Ozone and HDFS

DistCp performs a file checksum check to ensure file integrity. However, since the default checksum type of HDFS (`CRC32C`) differs from that of Ozone (`CRC32`), the file checksum check will cause the DistCp job to fail.

> To prevent job failures, specify checksum options in the DistCp command to force Ozone to use the same checksum type as HDFS. For example:

Reviewer: Is this also required if the source and destination are reversed?

Author: Yes. I have tried but it will require -Ddfs.checksum.type to specify HDFS checksum type.

Author: Ok. tried myself and updated the doc to include commands for both Ozone to HDFS **and** HDFS to Ozone.
